# timetag-tools — FPGA Time-tagger tools

These are a set of tools for operating the FPGA timetagger. These
include a set of Python-based applications for data acquisition and
low-level tools for manipulation, filtering, and extraction of photon
data.

More details on the FPGA timetagger system can be found in the
[Usage manual][usage].

[usage]: https://goldnerlab.physics.umass.edu/wiki/FpgaTimeTagger?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=construction.pdf)

## Installation

Before `timetag-tools` can be started one must install the
[`timetag-fx2`](http://github.com/goldner-lab/timetag-fx2) package. After this
is installed simply run (on Ubuntu Vivid),

```bash
$ sudo apt-get install libusb-1.0-0-dev libboost-all-dev libzmq3-dev
$ make
$ sudo make install
```

The `timetag-acquire` daemon should be started by
[`systemd`](http://freedesktop.org/software/systemd) when the device is plugged
in.

### Installing `timetag_ui`

On Ubuntu Vivid,
```bash
$ sudo apt-get install python-matplotlib
```

## Data acquisition interface

`timetag_ui` (found in the `ui/` directory) and `timetag_seq_ui` are
Python-based applications wrapping the low-level utilities provided in
this package in easy-to-use graphical interfaces.

## Low-level utilities

### Interacting with the hardware

The hardware is managed by a system-wide daemon, `timetag_acquire`.
This daemon accepts commands and publishes events on a set of local
[ZeroMQ](http://www.zeromq.org/) sockets.

 * `/tmp/timetag-ctrl` is a `REP` socket that allows users to submit
   control commands. The `help` command provides a full listing of
   available commands (see `timetag-cli` to conveniently work with
   this interface).

 * `/tmp/timetag-data` is a `PUB` socket to which records from the
   device are written. See `timetag-cat` to conveniently dump data
   from this interface.

 * `/tmp/timetag-event` is a `PUB` socket which publishes hardware
   events. The currently supported events are,

	`capture start`
	: The device has started capturing records.

	`capture stop`
	: The device has stopped capturing records.

`timetag-cli` provides an easy-to-use command-line interface to
`timetag_acquire`. If command-line arguments are given they will be
interpretted as a command and the result printed to standard
output. Otherwise the command acts as a simple read-evaluate-print
loop. For instance,

	$ timetag-cli start_capture
    $ timetag-cli
	>>> capture?
    1

`timetag-cat` prints incoming records from the device to `stdout`. For
instance, to capture records to a file, one might use,

	$ timetag-cli stop_capture
	$ timetag-cli reset_counter
    $ timetag-cat > my-records.timetag &
	$ timetag-cli start_capture
	$ sleep 10
	$ timetag-cli stop_capture

### Manipulating and extracting data

`timetag_bin`
: Bin photons into temporal bins.

`timetag_dump`
: Dump text representation of records in a file

`timetag_cut`
: Extract subsets of a `.timetag` file.

`timetag_extract`
: Extract binary timestamps
